Adding Julia documentation (#880)
pyansys/pymapdl: doc/source/getting_started/using_julia.rst

.. _using_julia:

***********************
Using PyMAPDL in Julia
***********************

If you like to work with Julia, you can use python libraries as they were Julia packages.

Installing Julia
=================

To install Julia go to their website `<https://julialang.org/>`_ and follow the instructions given in the *Download* section.

* `Windows <https://julialang.org/downloads/platform/#windows>`_
* `Linux <https://julialang.org/downloads/platform/#linux_and_freebsd>`_
* `MacOS <https://julialang.org/downloads/platform/#macos>`_

Setting Julia Environment
==========================

> To have access to Python libraries, we need to install *PyCall* Julia package.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To have access to Python libraries, you must install the *PyCall* Julia package.
```

To install it, run Julia and switch to the package manager by pressing ``"]"`` key.

> It is beneficial to create a virtual environment in Julia, in order to work with different package versions or applications if needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need to work with different package versions or applications, it is beneficial to create a virtual environment in Julia.
```

> To create a virtual environment, use ``activate`` command with the name of the new environment you want to create or activate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a virtual environment, use the ``activate`` command with the name of the new environment that you want to create or activate.
```

.. code-block:: julia

    (@1.7) pkg> activate julia_test
      Activating project at `C:\Users\USER\julia_test`

> It should show a message that the new package (``julia_test``) has been activated and that environment name will now precede the command line.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A message should appear, indicating that the new package (``julia_test``) has been activated. This environment name will now precede the command line.
```

.. code-block:: julia

    (julia_test) pkg>

Then we proceed to install *PyCall* package by typing:

.. code-block:: julia

    (julia_test) pkg> add PyCall

> To use *PyCall*, we go first to the Julia command line by pressing the backspace key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use *PyCall*, press the backspace key to go to the Julia command line.
```

> Then we can use the *PyCall* package as:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next use the *PyCall* package with:
```

.. code-block:: julia

    julia> using PyCall

This should be enough to use packages included in a basic Python distribution. 

For example:

.. code-block:: julia

    julia> math = pyimport("math")
    math.sin(math.pi/4) # returns ≈ 1/√2 = 0.70710678..

Installing PyMAPDL in Julia
============================

> *PyCall* includes a lightweight Python environment which uses `Conda <https://conda.io>`_ to manage and access Python packages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*PyCall* includes a lightweight Python environment that uses `Conda <https://conda.io>`_ to manage and access Python packages.
```

This environment is based on Python 3.9.7 (at the moment of writing this article) and includes the standard basic Python libraries.

> However since it is a fully working Python environment, we can still use it from outside Julia command line and install Python packages using *pip*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, because it is a fully working Python environment, you can still use it from outside the Julia command line and install Python packages using ``pip``.
```

> To install PyMAPDL we have first to locate the Python executable by typing:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To install PyMAPDL, first locate the Python executable with:
```

.. code-block:: julia

    julia> PyCall.python
    "C:\\Users\\USER\\.julia\\conda\\3\\python.exe"

> In Linux, the above code prints the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Linux, the above code prints the following, where ``python3`` is the default Python3 installation for the operating system.
```

.. code-block:: julia
    
    julia> PyCall.python
    "python3"

> Where ``python3`` is the Python3 installation by default in the operative system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

.. note::

    In Linux, there is no specific installation steps, it is just needed to add the Julia executable to the Path.

>     Hence  Julia's python installation path is highly dependent on each user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Hence,  Julia's Python installation path can differ from user to user.
```

>     If we uncompress the source files in for example in ``/home/USER/Julia``, Julia's path will be 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    For example, if you uncompress the source files in ``/home/USER/Julia``, Julia's path will be 
```

    ``/home/USER/Julia/julia-1.7.2/bin``

> Now we will use that Python executable to install PyMAPDL:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You would use this Python executable to install PyMAPDL:
```

.. code:: bash

    C:\Users\USER\.julia\conda\3\python.exe -m pip install ansys-mapdl-core

> In linux:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Linux:, you would install with:
```

.. code:: bash

    python3 -m pip install ansys-mapdl-core

> Finally, after restarting Julia, we can import PyMAPDL using the same procedure as described above:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, after restarting Julia, you can import PyMAPDL using the same procedure as described above:
```

.. code-block:: julia
    
    julia> using PyCall
    julia> pymapdl = pyimport("ansys.mapdl.core")
    PyObject <module 'ansys.mapdl.core' from 'C:\\Users\\USER\\.julia\\conda\\3\\lib\\site-packages\\ansys\\mapdl\\core\\__init__.py'>
    julia> print(mapdl.__str__())
    Product:             Ansys Mechanical Enterprise
    MAPDL Version:       21.2
    ansys.mapdl Version: 0.60.6
    
.. note:: 

>     If you experience some errors regarding *PyCall*, you can try to rebuild the package by going to package manager (pressing ``"]"`` ) and typing:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If you experience some errors regarding *PyCall*, you can try to rebuild the package by pressing ``"]"`` to go to the package manager and typing:
```

    
    .. code::
        
        pkg> build PyCall

Using PyMAPDL in Julia
=======================

> A simple example can be shown below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is a simple example of using PyMAPDL in Julia:
```

.. _using_julia:

***********************
Using PyMAPDL in Julia
***********************

If you like to work with Julia, you can use Python libraries as if they were Julia packages.

Installing Julia
=================

To install Julia go to their website `<https://julialang.org/>`_ and follow the instructions given in the *Download* section.

* `Windows <https://julialang.org/downloads/platform/#windows>`_
* `Linux <https://julialang.org/downloads/platform/#linux_and_freebsd>`_
* `MacOS <https://julialang.org/downloads/platform/#macos>`_

Setting Julia Environment
==========================

> To have access to Python libraries, you must install the *PyCall* Julia package.

Reviewer 2: Always link when possible.

```suggestion
To have access to Python libraries within Julia, you must install the [PyCall](https://github.com/JuliaPy/PyCall.jl) Julia package.
```

If you need to work with different package versions or applications, it is beneficial to create a virtual environment in Julia.
To create a virtual environment, use the ``activate`` command with the name of the new environment that you want to create or activate.

.. code-block:: julia

    (@1.7) pkg> activate julia_test
      Activating project at `C:\Users\USER\julia_test`

A message should appear, indicating that the new package (``julia_test``) has been activated. This environment name will now precede the command line.

.. code-block:: julia

    (julia_test) pkg>

Next install the *PyCall* package by typing:

.. code-block:: julia

    (julia_test) pkg> add PyCall

To use *PyCall*, press the backspace key to go to the Julia command line.
The command line will now be precede by the name ``Julia``. 

.. code-block:: julia

    julia>

Next use the *PyCall* package with:

.. code-block:: julia

    julia> using PyCall

This should be enough to use packages included in a basic Python distribution. 

For example:

.. code-block:: julia

    julia> math = pyimport("math")
    math.sin(math.pi/4) # returns ≈ 1/√2 = 0.70710678..

Installing PyMAPDL in Julia

> ============================

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
===========================
```

*PyCall* includes a lightweight Python environment that uses `Conda <https://conda.io>`_ to manage and access Python packages.
This environment, currently based on Python 3.9.7, includes the standard basic Python libraries.
However, because it is a fully working Python environment, you can still use it from outside the Julia command line and install Python packages using ``pip``.

To install PyMAPDL, first locate the Python executable with:

.. code-block:: julia

    julia> PyCall.python
    "C:\\Users\\USER\\.julia\\conda\\3\\python.exe"

In Linux, the above code prints the following, where ``python3`` is the default Python3 installation for the operating system.

.. code-block:: julia
    
    julia> PyCall.python
    "python3"

.. note::

    In Linux, there are no specific installation steps. You only need to add the Julia executable to the path.

>     Hence,  Julia's Python installation path can differ from user to user.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Hence, Julia's Python installation path can differ from user to user.
```

    For example, if you uncompress the source files in ``/home/USER/Julia``, Julia's path will be 
    ``/home/USER/Julia/julia-1.7.2/bin``

You would use this Python executable to install PyMAPDL:

.. code:: bash

    C:\Users\USER\.julia\conda\3\python.exe -m pip install ansys-mapdl-core

In Linux:, you would install with:

.. code:: bash

    python3 -m pip install ansys-mapdl-core

Finally, after restarting Julia, you can import PyMAPDL using the same procedure as described above:

.. code-block:: julia
    
    julia> using PyCall
    julia> pymapdl = pyimport("ansys.mapdl.core")
    PyObject <module 'ansys.mapdl.core' from 'C:\\Users\\USER\\.julia\\conda\\3\\lib\\site-packages\\ansys\\mapdl\\core\\__init__.py'>

>     julia> print(mapdl.__str__())

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    julia> print(mapdl)
```

Author: I have to disagree on this:

```julia
julia> print(mapdl)
PyObject <ansys.mapdl.core.mapdl_grpc.MapdlGrpc object at 0x00000000667E6A60>
julia> print(mapdl.__str__())
Product:             Ansys Mechanical Enterprise
MAPDL Version:       21.2
ansys.mapdl Version: 0.60.6
```
I guess it makes sense as a way to show it is not a "native" julia object.

Reviewer 2: Then this might be better:
```suggestion
    julia> print(str(mapdl))
```

Author: The ``string`` julia functions does still show the julia str implementation. The only way is to call the python method ``__str__``.

>     julia> print(mapdl.__str__())

Author: ```suggestion
    julia> mapdl = pymapdl.launch_mapdl()
    julia> print(mapdl.__str__())
```

    Product:             Ansys Mechanical Enterprise
    MAPDL Version:       21.2
    ansys.mapdl Version: 0.60.6
    
.. note:: 

>     If you experience some errors regarding *PyCall*, you can try to rebuild the package by pressing ``"]"`` to go to the package manager and typing:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    If you experience errors when using *PyCall*, you can try to rebuild the package by pressing ``"]"`` to go to the package manager and typing:
```

    
    .. code::
        
        pkg> build PyCall

Using PyMAPDL in Julia

> =======================

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
======================
```
